Facilitators should familiarize themselves with the content and navigation of the resources students will
explore in this lesson.
1. Explore the OSM Wiki Map Features page -
https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Map_Features
a. Run a search on the Map Features page.
On a Windows machine, press (and hold) the ‘Control‘ key + click the ‘F’ key. On an Apple
machine, press (and hold) the ‘Command‘ key + click the ‘F’ key.
b. For practice, search for transportation-related keywords such as:
i. “transportation”, “public transport”, “ferry” and “railway”
c. Search for additional features found in your area and compile an introductory list of ~20
to present to students. For example, local non-governmental organization offices such as
the Red Cross and elementary, middle and high schools.
2. Read through the Good Practices page - https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Good_practice
a. Make a bulleted list of good and bad mapping practices.
b. Review the Good Changeset Comments page. Understand that a changeset is OSM’s
equivalent to a document “save as” or a git version control “commit”.
Students will start off editing using the iD editor. Pay attention to documentation related
to this editor opposed to others including JOSM and Potlatch.
Constant review and student critique relative to these mapping habits is important. As
such, this resource should be referred to regularly throughout the course of students
contributing to the project.
3. Learn about navigating the map, viewing different map styles, and searching for features by
reviewing the “Browsing the Map” section on the OSM Wiki Browsing page -
https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Browsing
4. Facilitators should already have an active OpenStreetMap account ahead of time. If not, follow
instructions provided in Activity 2: Sign up for an OpenStreetMap Account before proceeding.
5. This lesson provides opportunity for students to contribute to a student journal. If not already
set-up, facilitators should create a folder for journals and ask students to save their journals to
the folder (e.g. Google Drive folder or some other place where all students and teachers access
and save to). Students should use this journal to describe their contributions with text and
screenshots as well as issues, questions, etc. when making contributions to OSM
