All about creating account in OpenStreetMap:

**Getting Ready**
- Prior to beginning the OSM registration process, all individuals signing up for OSM accounts will need to have an existing and accessible email account.
- It is crucial that usernames and passwords are remembered so that you can access other tools that require OSM accounts to log-in. We recommend encouraging you to find a way of safely storing this information for future reference.
- Choose a good username before you begin to sign up. Ensure you
	- Do NOT use your email address as a username
	- Do NOT put spaces in your username. E.g. “MapMaker”, but not “Map Maker”

**Creating an Account**
1. Navigate to OpenStreetMap in your browser.
2. Click the Sign Up tab in the top right corner to begin.


3. Fill in all the fields in the form. We recommend using an email you have easy access to, as you will receive a confirmation email to verify your account. You will not receive any spam/marketing emails. Click the blue Sign Up button when finished.


4. Read and accept the contributor terms and agreements.
5. It is not required, but we recommend that you check the box next to 'In addition to the above agreement, I consider my contributions to be in the Public Domain.'
6. Click the blue **Agree** button on the bottom of the screen.
7. To activate the account, you should now check their email and click on the link provided. (Make sure to check the spam folder if the email doesn’t appear after a few minutes.)


8. Return to OpenStreetMap and log in with their credentials.
9. Read through the welcome page in its entirety.
10. Once complete, click **Start Mapping**. 
